Use this program at your own risk. It may well destroy your computer, and make out with your grandmother and/or dog. It isn't well tested, and isn't fit for any purpose. 

(c) 2011 tom kelly, twak.org. Source/bundled resources that I created released under some sort of LGPL-ish license. Please reference "Interactive Modeling with Procedural Extrusions" if you publish anything in academia using this software.

3D Window Controls:

(designed for nice demo videos, rather than being useful)

Space - stop/start spinning
Q,Z - zoom
W,S - tilt
A,D - pan
(T - show mesh)
(L - lighting toggle)

2D Mouse Window Controls:

Left - select, drag points, plans & anchors. Click on a point for options.
Control + Left click add stuff - click on a blank space to add a plan/global offset, or a line to add a point.
Shift + Left click - delete points, delete all the points to remove a plan
Right drag - move view
Wheel - zoom view
The Alt key will change the behavour of the corner-dragging - in plan mode it snaps to grid, and profile mode it moves all points above the selected point as well.

2D Interface for Single-Building Application:

The left window is the plan view. The right window is the profile view. Select an edge by clicking on it, and edit the plan in the left window.
Selecting the updates button will update the 3D every time you change something. This can get slow. The go button just creates the 3D for the current design.
After selecting an edge, assign a profile to it from the combo box above the profile window.
Create a new profile using the new profile button.
The plans must not self-intersect ("don't cross the beams"), or be inside out (or you'll get inside out buildings). Courtyards/holes in footprints must be defined in the opposite direction. If you add a new plan inside an existing shape, it should reverse the loop for you, but no guarantees.

Edit the profiles in a similar way to the plans, note that they can only move upwards, or horizontally (the "monotone restriction", if you talk to Peter about this). To get around this, control-clicking in a profile will add a global event (overhanging roof).

Rules for overhangs:
The start and the end of the overhang have to be on the same side of the nearest wall.
You can put overhangs on the inside to carve out space.
Everytime you add a global event to a profile, it is added to all profiles (think about it...)
You can change the height of a global event using the dark-blue hollow handle in the plan editor. It changes the height for all plans
Double clicking on the hollow handle disables/enables the global for this roof edge. Easiest understood if you view the output!